During this demo,
we're going to look at how we can use Spring Cloud
Contract to set up a RESTful endpoint.
In the booking service, I have added a contract.
This contract specifies what a successful request for
booking a room would look like.
The HTTP method for this call is a POST.
It is calling the bookings endpoints.
For the body, we will send the fields customerId,
roomNumber, checkIn, and checkOut.
Rather than specifying specific values, instead I am using regexes.
As mentioned during the section introducing integration testing,
we generally want to avoid specific examples.
While there isn't a concern regarding test data going stale,
as we can simply mock out all that behavior,
using regexes provides more information on what the data should look like.
Using regexes also avoids any sort of bias in a data being set.
The regexes I set up aren't quite perfect,
namely for the dates, but they are good enough for this example.
Finally for the request, we are specifying the headers.
In this case, we are sending the data as JSON.
For the response, we are specifying the response code 201,
or created, and 201, by convention, returns a location header value,
which should be the location of the newly created resource,
which in this case would be bookings/1.
So we have a contract, how do we take this and actually test with it?
In the POM I added the Spring Cloud Contract plugin.
This will read contracts and generate test classes from them.
Additionally, I specify a base class that these tests will use.
The base class is used for fulfilling test case requirements.
Let's take a look at this base class.
In the base class file,
I am setting up my mod so that if any value is passed into the
addBooking method in the BookingService,
I'm returning 1 as the ID.
Looking at the controller,
it's currently set up as a passthrough of passing the
booking request object directly to a service.
Obviously this is a dramatically simplified example,
but trying to resemble a more real-world example would only
obfuscate what Spring Cloud Contract is doing.
If we run Maven install,
we can have Spring Cloud Contract generate and execute the test cases.
So the build is successful.
That is good.
If we look through the Maven console output,
near the top we can see the Cloud Contract plugin generating the test cases.
We can see what these test cases look like under the target folder.
So here in the ContractVerifier test,
we can see what the actual test case looks like.
While BookingService isn't doing anything with the data being passed in,
if it changes anything about the contract,
endpoint, fields, class, fields accepted,
status code returned, these tests will fail,
and that is Cloud Contract's goal.
Additionally, Cloud Contract, when given regexes,
will automatically generate test data that fits with the regex parameters.
The date fields, as mentioned, don't really make sense.
If we spent more time on the regexes, we could ensure only validates are sent,
but that's a bit beyond the scope of this demo.
I'm demoing Spring Cloud Contract, not Regexes.
Additionally under the target folder,
we can see the stubs JAR Cloud Contract creates.
If we journey over to the consumer of the service,
the room service, we can see the other side of Cloud Contract.
With AutoConfigureStubRunner,
I'm establishing the link between this test class and the
contracts it'll be validating against.
To do that, as mentioned in a previous section,
I give the Maven coordinates, the group ID,
and the artifact ID that contains the contract I want to verify.
So in this case, the BookingService.
The plus sign says to always get the latest JAR.
The 801 tells Cloud Contract what port to run the wire mock server on.
In the booking-service,
it's making a hard-coded call to where the
RoomService will be located in our test.
Back in our test, if we run it, we see green.
If I was to change this test up, say include a letter in the customer ID,
as we can see, the test fails.
If we look in the console output,
Spring Cloud Contract provides us useful information on how
our test is failing to fulfill the contract.
With Spring Cloud Contract,
we have the confidence that our service will play nice with one
another when deployed out on shared environment,
and we can verify all this without all the normal fuss of setting up a bunch of services to run on our local machine.